### Qualification Round

The qualification round will take place on March 12th at 18:30 CET. We will
send a reminder email to all participants at 18:00 CET with the link to a
Hangout On Air that will begin at 18:30 CET. This Hangout On Air will announce
and explain the task. The task will be available online in both French and
English in PDF format. Participants will have until 22:30 CET to analyze the
problem and submit their entries.


## How will I get further announcements and ask questions?

We will send all announcements before, during and after the qualification round
to the mailing list hashcode2015-announce@google.com. All registered
participants have been automatically added to the list using the primary email
address submitted in the registration form. You may consult the archive of
messages here.


If you have any questions or issues during the qualification round, please
contact us at hashcode2015@google.com. If you want to discuss with other
participants, you may use the Google+ community. Please note that we won't
systematically review messages and post answers to the Google+ Community and we
ask that you use the mailing list to reach out to us.


## What do I need in order to participate in the qualification round?

The only thing you absolutely need for the qualification round is a computer
connected to the internet (more details below). It might also be good to have
some paper and pens, as well as some food and drinks if you need energy.


## Which language should I use?

Every person speaking French or English can participate. The Hangout on Air
will be a mix of French and English. The problem statement will be available in
French and in English. You can reach out to us during the competition either in
French or in English.


## How does the qualification round work?


# Hangout on Air

We will start the qualification round by a Hangout on Air (a video streamed
from our offices). We will post the link on this page and send it by email. If
you can watch a YouTube video on your computer, you should be able to watch the
Hangout on Air.


# Judge System

On March 12th, we will send you a link to access our judge system using a web
browser (any recent mainstream web browser should work). Our judge system will
require you to log in with the Gmail address you indicated at registration
time. Please take a few minutes before the qualification round to try to
connect to the judge system, and verify that your registration details in the
judge system are correct.


# Live scoreboard

The judge system will feature a live scoreboard, so that you will be able to
see how the other teams perform. The scoreboard will freeze at 21:30 (one hour
before submission closes) to keep a little bit of suspense :)


# Development environment

There are no restrictions on the type of development environment or programming
language you use throughout the contest. During the contest, you will write
programs to solve a task, and submit the results as a text file to our judge
system. You will be responsible for compiling and running your code. If you
registered as a team, we advise you to agree with your teammates about the
development environment to use, so that you can work efficiently as a team.


# Submissions

During the qualification round, you will be able to submit your solution by
uploading a text-based file to our web-based judge system. You will be able to
submit as many solutions to the problem as you want. Only the best scoring
solution will be considered for your final ranking.


# Code source

To be valid, every code submission must include a file (typically a ZIP
archive) containing the source code of the program you develop to generate the
solution. As per the contest rules, we require the participants to submit
solutions generated by an original program they wrote during the contest. In
order to be able to check this rule is enforced, we require participants to
submit the source code of the program they developed to generate the solution.
To make this easy, we encourage you to prepare an empty "Hello World!" project
on your computer, with a script to generate the ZIP file. The submitted ZIP
files must be at most 1 MB, so you should ensure it does not contain generated
library and binary files.


## How should I prepare?

You may have a look to the tasks we proposed last year. They should give you
better understanding of the type of problem to expect, and you can use them as
training problems.


## We signed up as a team. Can we change members?

You registered as a team, so you will need to participate as a team.
Unfortunately, you cannot replace a member with a person who has not
registered. If some people from your team cannot make it, you can still
participate as long as your team still has at least two team members.
